.TH "SIPX-SERVTEST" "" "1" "Andy Spitzer and Scott Lawrence" ""
.SH "NAME"
sipx\-servtest \- Monitors the reachability and functionality of a sipXecs system.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
   sipx\-servtest [\-\-test\-id <label>]
                 [\-\-domain <domain>]
                 [\-\-commserver <server>]...  

                 [\-\-proxy <proxy\-server>]...  
                 [\-\-redirect <redirect\-server>]...  

                 [\-\-aor <aor>]...  
                 [\-\-alarm <alarm\-address>]...  

                 [\-\-delay <delay\-seconds>]
                 [\-\-timeout <timeout\-seconds>]
                 [\-\-symmetric]
                 [\-\-local <port>]

   sipx\-servtest \-\-test\-alarm
                 [\-\-test\-id <label>]
                 [\-\-alarm <alarm\-address>]...  
                 
   sipx\-servtest \-\-help
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
   Monitors the reachability and functionality of a sipXecs system.

   sipx\-servtest executes the following tests:

   Connect:
      For each server (of any type), the tester checks that it can create 
      a connection to the specified address (it uses TCP to the standard 'echo' 
      port \- no data is sent or expected); the test fails if there is no
      response or if an error response is received.

   Proxy Forwarding:
      Sends an 'OPTIONS <tester>' request to each <proxy\-server> (the
      <tester> address is a dynamic port opened by sipx\-servtest for its own
      use), and responds to it with a 200 response; this passes if both the
      request and response are delivered by the proxies.  

      This tests that the proxy is routing requests correctly.

   Redirect: 
      Sends a 'PING <aor>' request to each <aor> at each <redirect\-server>;
      this passes if it gets back any 302 response.
     
      This tests that the redirect service is operating correctly.  If the
      target aor is one maintained by a registration, it can also confirm
      that registrations are syncronized between redundant redirect servers.

      If you want to test the validity of an address that is maintained by
      a registration, then make sure that the aor DOES NOT have the VoiceMail
      permission so that the registry will return a redirection ONLY when the
      registration is valid (if it has voicemail, it will get a redirection
      to the voicemail server even if the registration has failed).

   Domain Response:
      Sends an 'OPTIONS <domain>' request to each <proxy\-server>; this
      passes if it gets back a 200 response.  

      This test confirms that the proxy is communicating with the redirect 
      service (the 200 response actually comes from the registry/redirect 
      server through the proxy).

   End Point:
      Sends an 'OPTIONS <aor>' request to each <proxy\-server>, which should
      be forwarded to the user agent; this passes if it gets back a 200
      response.

      This is an end\-to\-end test of the target address; in order to pass, all
      the SIP services must be operating correctly and the target user agent
      must be reachable.  It can be used to verify that any of the user 
      agent services in the system, such as the voicemail service and park
      service are operating.
.SH "OPTIONS"
   Important Options:

      \-\-domain <domain>
         Specifies the URI of your sip domain.

      \-\-aor <aor>
         Specifies the SIP URL of a User Agent that MUST be valid;
         that is, that the registry/redirect service will translate to a
         Contact address, and which will respond to an OPTIONS request
         with a 200 response.  (may be specified more than once)

         The <aor> MUST ALWAYS be reachable; one useful test is the
         sipXvxml voicemail server address (by default, sip:101@{domain}.

         Valid examples:
            sip:woof@pingtel.com
            sip:100@myserver.example.com

      \-\-commserver <server>
         Specifies a server name or address for a server in the
         domain; this specifies that the server runs a proxy
         and a registrar, so it is equivalent to specifying:
           \-\-proxy server \-\-redirect server
         (may be specified more than once) 
      
      \-\-proxy <proxy\-server>
         Specifies a server name or address and port for a proxy in the
         domain (if not specified, the port defaults to 5060).  (may be
         specified more than once) 
 
      \-\-redirect <redirect\-server>
         Specifies a server name or address and port for a
         registry/redirect server (sipregistrar) in the domain (if not
         specified, the port defaults to 5070).  (may be specified more
         than once) 
 
         The server addresses MAY include the port number by including it
         after the server address and a colon.

         Valid examples:
            sipxchange.pingtel.com
            myserver.example.com:5000
            127.0.0.1:12000

      \-\-alarm <alarm\-address>
         An email address where mail messages are sent when errors are
         detected.    (may be specified more than once)

         If at least one alarm address is provided,  the entire of cycle of
         tests is run sequentially.  The sipx\-servtest program then waits
         <delay\-seconds> and repeats the tests in an infinite loop. 

         If any test fails, an email is sent describing each failure to
         each <alarm\-address>.  After any cycle in which at least one test
         has failed, subsequent iterations will not repeat alarms for the
         same test, but will send new alarms for any new failures; if,
         after any failure, a full cycle of tests passes, then a message
         indicating that the problem has cleared is sent to each
         <alarm\-address>.

         If no alarm addresses are provided, sipx\-servtest runs only one
         instance of each tests, prints a message describing the result of
         each on the standard output, and exits with status zero if all
         tests passed and a non\-zero status if any failed.

   Other available options:

      \-\-test\-id <label>
         Specifies an identifying label included in any message sent
         (useful if you are running more than one instance of the tester). 
         Defaults to the host name where the tester is run.

      \-\-delay <delay\-seconds> (default is 60)
         How long to wait between each cycle of tests.

      \-\-verbose
         Prints details about each step of each test on the standard output 
         as the tests are performed.  

      \-\-test\-alarm
         Sends a trial message to each <alarm\-address>.  At least one \-\-alarm
         must be specified.  Useful to verify that email sent from the test
         platform reaches each recipient promptly.  
         Does not actually run any tests.

      \-\-timeout <timeout\-seconds> (default is 10)
         How long to wait for an expected event in any test.

      \-\-symmetric
         Use symmetric signalling (send and listen on the same port)

      \-\-local <port>
         Specifies the local port number for incoming requests.  The
         program defaults to using an available port assigned by the OS. 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
NONE
.SH "EXAMPLE"
   sipx\-servtest \-\-domain example.edu \
                 \-\-proxy sipx.example.edu \-\-redirect sipx.example.edu \
                 \-\-aor sip:100@example.edu \
                 \-\-alarm admin@example.edu
.SH "BUGS"
see http://tracker.sipfoundry.org
